Add setup rancher and harvester in air-gapped environment (#137)
harvester/docs: docs/airgap.md

The Harvester ISO image contains all the packages to make it work in an air gapped environment.

## Working without HTTP Proxy

In this example, we use KVM to provision Harvester and integrate it with Rancher.

### Setup offline Harvester

1. Clone [harvester/ipxe-examples](https://github.com/harvester/ipxe-examples).

> 1. Go to `vagrant-pxe-harvester` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the `vagrant-pxe-harvester` folder.
```

1. Edit [settings.yml](https://github.com/harvester/ipxe-examples/blob/c8267b6270660255bf71149a1fef3a7a914550de/vagrant-pxe-harvester/settings.yml#L44) and set `offline: true`.

> 1. Execute [setup_harvester.sh](https://github.com/harvester/ipxe-examples/blob/main/vagrant-pxe-harvester/setup_harvester.sh) script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute the [setup_harvester.sh](https://github.com/harvester/ipxe-examples/blob/main/vagrant-pxe-harvester/setup_harvester.sh) script.
```

> ### Deploy Rancher on k3s and setup private registry in another VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Rancher on K3s and setup private registry in another VM
```

> 1. Create another KVM with two network interfaces `harvester` and `vagrant-libvirt`. `harvester` network interface is for intranet and `vagrant-libvirt` is for internet. We need `vagrant-libvirt` to download all required resources. We will remove it before we start Rancher. Also, please give this VM at least 300GB to save all required images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create another KVM with two network interfaces, `harvester` and `vagrant-libvirt`. 
- `harvester` is for intranet and `vagrant-libvirt` is for internet. 
- We need `vagrant-libvirt` to download all required resources. We will remove it before we start Rancher. 
- Configure this VM with at least 300GB to save all required images.
```

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Helm](https://helm.sh/).

> 1. Create `certs` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `certs` folder.
```

```
mkdir -p certs
```
1. Generate private registry certificate files.
```
openssl req \
  -newkey rsa:4096 -nodes -sha256 -keyout certs/domain.key \
  -addext "subjectAltName = DNS:myregistry.local" \
  -x509 -days 365 -out certs/domain.crt
```
1. Move certificate files to `/etc/docker/certs.d`.
```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/docker/certs.d/myregistry.local:5000
sudo cp certs/domain.crt /etc/docker/certs.d/myregistry.local:5000/domain.crt
```

> 1. Start private registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start the private registry.
```

```
docker run -d \
  -p 5000:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name registry \
  -v "$(pwd)"/certs:/certs \
  -v "$(pwd)"/registry:/var/lib/registry \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_CERTIFICATE=/certs/domain.crt \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/certs/domain.key \
  registry:2
```

> 1. Add `myregistry.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private ip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add `myregistry.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private IP.
```

```
# vim /etc/hosts
192.168.0.50 myregistry.local
```

> 1. Create `get-rancher` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `get-rancher` script.
```

```
# vim get-rancher
#!/bin/bash
if [[ $# -eq 0 ]] ; then
    echo 'This requires you to pass a version for the url like "v2.6.4"'
    exit 1
fi
wget https://github.com/rancher/rancher/releases/download/$1/rancher-images.txt
wget https://github.com/rancher/rancher/releases/download/$1/rancher-load-images.sh
wget https://github.com/rancher/rancher/releases/download/$1/rancher-save-images.sh
chmod +x ./rancher-save-images.sh
chmod +x ./rancher-load-images.sh
```

> 1. Make `get-rancher` script be excutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make the `get-rancher` script executable.
```

```
chmod +x get-rancher
```
1. Download `rancher-images.txt`, `rancher-load-images.sh` and `rancher-save-images.sh`.
```
./get-rancher v2.6.4
```
1. Add cert-manager images to `rancher-images.txt`.
```
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io/
helm repo update
helm fetch jetstack/cert-manager --version v1.7.1
helm template ./cert-manager-v1.7.1.tgz | awk '$1 ~ /image:/ {print $2}' | sed s/\"//g >> ./rancher-images.txt
```
1. Sort `rancher-images.txt`.
```
sort -u rancher-images.txt -o rancher-images.txt
```

> 1. Get images. This step may take 1 to 2 hours. It depends on your network speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get images. This step may take 1 to 2 hours depending on your network speed.
```

```
./rancher-save-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt
```
1. Load images to local registry.
```
./rancher-load-images.sh --image-list ./rancher-images.txt --registry myregistry.local:5000
```

> 1. Create `get-k3s` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `get-k3s` script.
```

```
# vim get-k3s
#!/bin/bash
if [[ $# -eq 0 ]] ; then
    echo 'This requires you to pass a version for the url like "v1.23.4+k3s1"'
    exit 1
fi
wget https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/releases/download/$1/k3s-airgap-images-amd64.tar
wget https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/releases/download/$1/k3s
wget https://get.k3s.io/ -O install.sh
chmod +x ./k3s
chmod +x ./install.sh
```

> 1. Make `get-k3s` be excutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make `get-k3s` excuteable.
```

```
chmod +x get-k3s
```
1. Download `k3s-airgap-images-amd64.tar`, `k3s` and `install.sh`.
```
./get-k3s v1.23.4+k3s1
```
1. Download Rancher.
```
helm repo add rancher-latest https://releases.rancher.com/server-charts/latest
helm fetch rancher-latest/rancher --version=v2.6.4
```
1. Download `cert-manager-crds.yaml`.
```
mkdir cert-manager
curl -L -o cert-manager/cert-manager-crd.yaml https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.7.1/cert-manager.crds.yaml
```

> 1. Remove `vagrant-libvirt` network interface. We've downloaded all required resources. We can cut network from this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the `vagrant-libvirt` network interface. Once the required resources download, you can remove the network.
```

1. Move `k3s-airgap-images-amd64.tar` to `/var/lib/rancher/k3s/agent/images/`.
```
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/rancher/k3s/agent/images/
sudo cp k3s-airgap-images-amd64.tar /var/lib/rancher/k3s/agent/images/
```

> 1. Create `/etc/rancher/k3s` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `/etc/rancher/k3s` folder.
```

```
mkdir -p /etc/rancher/k3s
```
1. Add `registries.yaml` to `/etc/rancher/k3s`.
```
# vim /etc/rancher/k3s/registries.yaml
mirrors:
  docker.io:
    endpoint:
      - "https://myregistry.local:5000/"
configs:
  "myregistry.local:5000":
    tls:
      insecure_skip_verify: true
```

> 1. Install k3s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install K3s.
```

```
INSTALL_K3S_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true ./install.sh
```
1. Generate cert-manager YAML files.
```
helm template cert-manager ./cert-manager-v1.7.1.tgz --output-dir . \
    --namespace cert-manager \
    --set image.repository=myregistry.local:5000/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-controller \
    --set webhook.image.repository=myregistry.local:5000/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-webhook \
    --set cainjector.image.repository=myregistry.local:5000/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-cainjector \
    --set startupapicheck.image.repository=myregistry.local:5000/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-ctl
```
1. Move `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` to `~/.kube`.
```
mkdir ~/.kube
sudo cp /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml ~/.kube/config
sudo chown $USER ~/.kube/config
export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/config
```
1. Install cert-manager.
```
kubectl create namespace cert-manager
kubectl apply -f cert-manager/cert-manager-crd.yaml
kubectl apply -R -f ./cert-manager
```

> 1. Create CA private key and certifacate file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a CA private key and a certificate file.
```

```
openssl genrsa -out cakey.pem 2048
openssl req -x509 -sha256 -new -nodes -key cakey.pem -days 3650 -out cacerts.pem -subj "/CN=cattle-ca"
```

> 1. Create `openssl.cnf`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private ip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create `openssl.cnf`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private IP
```

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
extendedKeyUsage = clientAuth, serverAuth
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = myrancher.local
IP.1 = 192.168.0.50
```

> 1. Generate private key and certificate file for `myrancher.local`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate s private key and a certificate file for `myrancher.local`.
```

```
openssl genrsa -out tls.key 2048
openssl req -sha256 -new -key tls.key -out tls.csr -subj "/CN=myrancher.local" -config openssl.cnf
openssl x509 -sha256 -req -in tls.csr -CA cacerts.pem \
    -CAkey cakey.pem -CAcreateserial -out tls.crt \
    -days 3650 -extensions v3_req \
    -extfile openssl.cnf
```

> 1. Create `cattle-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `cattle-system` namespace.
```

```
kubectl create ns cattle-system
```
1. Create `tls.sa` secret.
```
kubectl -n cattle-system create secret generic tls-ca \
  --from-file=cacerts.pem=./cacerts.pem
```

> 1. Create `tls-rancher-ingress` secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `tls-rancher-ingress` secret.
```

```
kubectl -n cattle-system create secret tls tls-rancher-ingress \
  --cert=tls.crt \
  --key=tls.key
```
1. Generate Rancher YAML files.
```
helm template rancher ./rancher-2.6.4.tgz --output-dir . \
    --no-hooks \
    --namespace cattle-system \
    --set hostname=myrancher.local \
    --set rancherImageTag=v2.6.4 \
    --set rancherImage=myregistry.local:5000/rancher/rancher \
    --set systemDefaultRegistry=myregistry.local:5000 \
    --set useBundledSystemChart=true \
    --set ingress.tls.source=secret \
    --set privateCA=true
```
1. Install Rancher.
```
kubectl -n cattle-system apply -R -f ./rancher
```

> 1. Add `myrancher.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private ip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add `myrancher.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private IP.
```

```
# vim /etc/hosts
192.168.0.50 myregistry.local myrancher.local
```

### Integrate Harvester with Rancher in air-gapped environment

> 1. (Harvester VM) Add `myregistry.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private ip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Harvester VM) Add `myregistry.local` to `/etc/hosts`. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private IP.
```

```
# vim /etc/hosts
192.168.0.50 myregistry.local
```
1. (Harvester VM) Add `registries.yaml` to `/etc/rancher/rke2/`.
```
# vim /etc/rancher/rke2/registries.yaml
mirrors:
  docker.io:
    endpoint:
      - "https://myregistry.local:5000"
configs:
  "myregistry.local:5000":
    tls:
      insecure_skip_verify: true
```
1. (Harvester VM) Restart RKE2.
```
systemctl restart rke2-server.service
```

> 1. (Harvester VM) Update `rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns` ConfigMap. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private ip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Harvester VM) Update the `rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns` ConfigMap. Remember to change `192.168.0.50` to your private IP.
```

```
# replace data like following
data:
  Corefile: ".:53 {\n    errors \n    health  {\n        lameduck 5s\n    }\n    ready
    \n    kubernetes   cluster.local  cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {\n        pods
    insecure\n        fallthrough in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa\n        ttl 30\n    }\n    prometheus
    \  0.0.0.0:9153\n   hosts /etc/coredns/customdomains.db myrancher.local {\n
    \   fallthrough\n    }\n forward   . /etc/resolv.conf\n    cache   30\n    loop
    \n    reload \n    loadbalance \n}"
  customdomains.db: |
    192.168.0.50 myrancher.local
```

> 1. (Harvester VM) Update `rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns` Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Harvester VM) Update the `rke2-coredns-rke2-coredns` deployment.
```
